docs/index.adoc, before:

// Licensed to ObjectStyle LLC under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ObjectStyle LLC licenses
// this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

= Kotlin Extensions for Bootique and Bootique Modules
:bootique_version: 0.25
:kotlin_version: 1.2.70

== Overview

`bootique-kotlin` contains following modules:

. Kotlin APIs and extensions for Bootique;
. Kotlin Script Configuration Module;
. Configuration and Extensions for Bootique Modules;
. `JacksonService` which provides `ObjectMapper` with enabled `KotlinModule`.

== TL;DR;

* Use `KotlinBootique` instead of `Bootique`;
* Use `KotlinModule` instead of `Module`, you can use `KotlinModule` with `ConfigModule` (just inherit both);
* Use `KotlinBQModuleProvider` instead of `BQModuleProvider`;
* Use extensions defined in https://github.com/bootique/bootique-kotlin/blob/master/bootique-kotlin/src/main/java/io/bootique/kotlin/extra/Extensions.kt[Extensions.kt];
* Use `bootique-kotlin-configuration` module to benefit from configuration written in Kotlin.
* Use `bootique-kotlin-jackson` to get `ObjectMapper` with `KotlinModule`.

== Getting started

Kotlin *{kotlin_version}* used in project.

Latest stable version: image:https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/io.bootique.kotlin/bootique-kotlin/badge.svg[Maven Central,link=https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/io.bootique.kotlin/bootique-kotlin/]

Add dependency on needed parts in your `build.gradle`, or `pom.xml`:


[source,kotlin,subs="attributes"]
----
// Kotlin Extensions for Bootique
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration Module
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-config:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration Module
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-jackson:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration and Extensions for Jetty. Also this adds dependency to bootique-jetty module.
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-jetty:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration and Extensions for Logback. Also this adds dependency to bootique-logback module.
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-logback:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration and Extensions for $moduleName$. Also this adds dependency to bootique-$moduleName$ module.
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-$moduleName$:{bootique_version}")
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
`bootique-kotlin` modules doesn't include `kotlin-stdlib-jdk8`, or any other core kotlin libraries, since you can use newer kotlin version and usually you already have `kotlin-stdlib-jdk8` in runtime. So there are list of additional dependencies for different bootique-kotlin modules:

----
bootique-kotlin-config:
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-script-util
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-compiler-embeddable

bootique-kotlin-jackson:
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect

bootique-kotlin-logback:
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect
----

If you use different kotlin version, it's much simpler to include this libraries with proper version, instead of excluding library version of them and then including again.

====

== Bootique

=== Replacement for Bootique

`bootique-kotlin` provides replacement for `Bootique` class - `KotlinBootique`:

[source,kotlin]
----
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    KotlinBootique(args)
        .module(ApplicationModule::class)
        .exec()
        .exit()
}
----

So no need for extensions for `Bootique` class, `KotlinBootique` provides best experience for developing Bootique apps with Kotlin.

=== KotlinBQModuleProvider

`KotlinBQModuleProvider` - interface to implement in Bootique Kotlin application instead of `BQModuleProvider`.

[source,kotlin]
----
class ApplicationModuleProvider : KotlinBQModuleProvider {
    override val module = ApplicationModule()
    override val overrides = listOf(BQCoreModule::class)
    override val dependencies = listOf(KotlinConfigModule::class)
}
----

You can see how declarative become module provider.

=== Extension: `ConfigurationFactory.config`

[source,kotlin]
----
// Using Java Api
configurationFactory.config(SampleFactory::class.java, "sample")

// With Extension
configurationFactory.config(SampleFactory::class, "sample")

// With Extension, reified generics
configurationFactory.config<SampleFactory>("sample")

// Type Inference
@Singleton
@Provides
fun createAppConfiguration(configurationFactory: ConfigurationFactory): SampleFactory {
    return configurationFactory.config/* No Type Here */(configPrefix)
}
----

=== Extension: `BQCoreModuleExtender.addCommand`

Straightforward and easy to use extension for contributing commands.

[source,kotlin]
----
BQCoreModule
    .extend(binder)
    .addCommand(ApplicationCommand::class)
----

=== Extension: `BQCoreModuleExtender.setDefaultCommand`

Also extension for `setDefaultCommand` available.

[source,kotlin]
----
BQCoreModule
    .extend(binder)
    .setDefaultCommand(ApplicationCommand::class)
----

=== Extensions:

See https://github.com/bootique/bootique-kotlin/blob/master/bootique-kotlin/src/main/java/io/bootique/kotlin/extra/Extensions.kt[Extensions.kt] for sources.

=== Deprecated Extensions:

These extensions deprecated and deleted in 0.25 in favor of `KotlinModule` and `KotlinBootique`.

* `LinkedBindingBuilder.toClass`
* `ScopedBindingBuilder.asSingleton`
* `ScopedBindingBuilder.inScope`
* `Binder.bind`
* `Bootique.module`
* `Bootique.modules`

== Guice

=== KotlinModule

`bootique-kotlin` introduces new module interface to use with kotlin: `KotlinModule`

[source,kotlin]
----
class ApplicationModule : KotlinModule {
    override fun configure(binder: KotlinBinder) {
        binder.bind(ShareCountService::class).to(DefaultShareCountService::class).asSingleton()
        binder.bind(HttpClient::class).to(DefaultHttpClient::class).asSingleton()
    }
}
----

=== Extensions

There are few function to help work with `TypeLiteral` and `Key`.

[source,kotlin]
----
// TypeLiteral
typeLiteral<Array<String>>()

// Key
key<List<Callable<A>>>()
----

== Configuration Module

Use Kotlin Script for configuration really simple:

. Create script
. Override `ConfigurationFactory`

=== Configuration with Kotlin can be defined in Kotlin Script file:

[source,kotlin]
----
import io.bootique.kotlin.config.modules.config
import io.bootique.kotlin.config.modules.httpConnector
import io.bootique.kotlin.config.modules.jetty

config {
    jetty {
        httpConnector {
            port = 4242
            host = "0.0.0.0"
        }
    }
}
----

=== Enable Kotlin Script Configuration in Bootique:

With extension:

[source,kotlin]
----
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    KotlinBootique(args)
        .withKotlinConfig() // Extension function
        .autoLoadModules()
        .exec()
        .exit()
}
----

Using `BQModuleProvider`:

[source,kotlin]
----
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    KotlinBootique(args)
        .module(KotlinConfigModuleProvider())
        .autoLoadModules()
        .exec()
        .exit()
}
----

You can pass this file as always to bootique:

[source,bash]
----
./bin/application --config=classpath:config.kts --server
----

It's even support multiple files (each file contains map of configs):

[source,bash]
----
./bin/application --config=classpath:config.kts --config=classpath:config1.kts --server
----

That's it! You get autocomplete in IDE, and *code* for configuration!

== Bootique Jetty

Define empty config:

[source,kotlin]
----
config {
    jetty {

    }
}
----

Use autocompletion to define configuration.

Use `httpConnector/httpsConnector` extensions to define connectors:

[source,kotlin]
----
jetty {
    httpConnector {
        port = 4242
        host = "192.168.0.1"
        responseHeaderSize = 42
        requestHeaderSize = 13
    }
}
----

== Bootique Logback

Define logback configuration:

[source,kotlin]
----
config {
    addConfig("log" to logbackContextFactory(
        logFormat = "[%d{dd/MMM/yyyy:HH:mm:ss}] %t %-5p %c{1}: %m%n",
        useLogbackConfig = false,
        debugLogback = false,
        level = LogbackLevel.warn,
        loggers = mapOf(
            logger(LogbackModuleTest::class, LogbackLevel.error),
            logger("TestLogger", LogbackLevel.trace)
        ),
        appenders = listOf(
            consoleAppender(
                logFormat = "[%d{dd/MMM/yyyy:HH:mm:ss}] %t %-5p %c{1}: %m%n",
                target = ConsoleTarget.stderr
            ),
            fileAppender(logFormat, "abc", timeBasedPolicy(
                fileNamePattern = "Abc_%d",
                totalSize = "2m",
                historySize = 1
            ))
        )
    ))
}
----

Use function for retrieving logger for class:

[source,kotlin]
----
val logger = logger<SomeService>()
----

Or if class is generic:

[source,kotlin]
----
val logger = logger<SomeService<*>>()
----

== Bootique Undertow

Define undertow configuration:

[source,kotlin]
----
config {
    addConfig("undertow" to undertowFactory(
        httpListeners = listOf(
            httpListener(1337, "127.0.0.1")
        ),
        workerThreads = 42
    ))
}
----

Commit message:

Describe how to use snapshot version.

docs/index.adoc, after:

// Licensed to ObjectStyle LLC under one
// or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
// distributed with this work for additional information
// regarding copyright ownership.  The ObjectStyle LLC licenses
// this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
// "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
// with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
// software distributed under the License is distributed on an
// "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
// KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
// specific language governing permissions and limitations
// under the License.

= Kotlin Extensions for Bootique and Bootique Modules
:bootique_version: 0.25
:bootique_snapshot_version: 1.0.RC1-SNAPSHOT
:kotlin_version: 1.2.70

== Overview

`bootique-kotlin` contains following modules:

. Kotlin APIs and extensions for Bootique;
. Kotlin Script Configuration Module;
. Configuration and Extensions for Bootique Modules;
. `JacksonService` which provides `ObjectMapper` with enabled `KotlinModule`.

== TL;DR;

* Use `KotlinBootique` instead of `Bootique`;
* Use `KotlinModule` instead of `Module`, you can use `KotlinModule` with `ConfigModule` (just inherit both);
* Use `KotlinBQModuleProvider` instead of `BQModuleProvider`;
* Use extensions defined in https://github.com/bootique/bootique-kotlin/blob/master/bootique-kotlin/src/main/java/io/bootique/kotlin/extra/Extensions.kt[Extensions.kt];
* Use `bootique-kotlin-configuration` module to benefit from configuration written in Kotlin.
* Use `bootique-kotlin-jackson` to get `ObjectMapper` with `KotlinModule`.

== Getting started

Kotlin *{kotlin_version}* used in project.

Latest stable version: image:https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/io.bootique.kotlin/bootique-kotlin/badge.svg[Maven Central,link=https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/io.bootique.kotlin/bootique-kotlin/]

Add dependency on needed parts in your `build.gradle`, or `pom.xml`:


[source,kotlin,subs="attributes"]
----
// Kotlin Extensions for Bootique
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration Module
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-config:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration Module
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-jackson:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration and Extensions for Jetty. Also this adds dependency to bootique-jetty module.
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-jetty:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration and Extensions for Logback. Also this adds dependency to bootique-logback module.
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-logback:{bootique_version}")

// Kotlin Configuration and Extensions for $moduleName$. Also this adds dependency to bootique-$moduleName$ module.
compile("io.bootique.kotlin:bootique-kotlin-$moduleName$:{bootique_version}")
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
`bootique-kotlin` modules doesn't include `kotlin-stdlib-jdk8`, or any other core kotlin libraries, since you can use newer kotlin version and usually you already have `kotlin-stdlib-jdk8` in runtime. So there are list of additional dependencies for different bootique-kotlin modules:

----
bootique-kotlin-config:
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-script-util
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-compiler-embeddable

bootique-kotlin-jackson:
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect

bootique-kotlin-logback:
  org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect
----

If you use different kotlin version, it's much simpler to include this libraries with proper version, instead of excluding library version of them and then including again.

====

If you'd like to use snapshot versions, you have to add bootique snapshot repository:

[source]
----
http://maven.objectstyle.org/nexus/content/repositories/bootique-snapshots/
----

For example in gradle it can be done this way:

[source,kotlin]
----
repositories {
    maven { setUrl("http://maven.objectstyle.org/nexus/content/repositories/bootique-snapshots/") }
}
----

And then use snapshot version: *{bootique_snapshot_version}*.

== Bootique

=== Replacement for Bootique

`bootique-kotlin` provides replacement for `Bootique` class - `KotlinBootique`:

[source,kotlin]
----
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    KotlinBootique(args)
        .module(ApplicationModule::class)
        .exec()
        .exit()
}
----

So no need for extensions for `Bootique` class, `KotlinBootique` provides best experience for developing Bootique apps with Kotlin.

=== KotlinBQModuleProvider

`KotlinBQModuleProvider` - interface to implement in Bootique Kotlin application instead of `BQModuleProvider`.

[source,kotlin]
----
class ApplicationModuleProvider : KotlinBQModuleProvider {
    override val module = ApplicationModule()
    override val overrides = listOf(BQCoreModule::class)
    override val dependencies = listOf(KotlinConfigModule::class)
}
----

You can see how declarative become module provider.

=== Extension: `ConfigurationFactory.config`

[source,kotlin]
----
// Using Java Api
configurationFactory.config(SampleFactory::class.java, "sample")

// With Extension
configurationFactory.config(SampleFactory::class, "sample")

// With Extension, reified generics
configurationFactory.config<SampleFactory>("sample")

// Type Inference
@Singleton
@Provides
fun createAppConfiguration(configurationFactory: ConfigurationFactory): SampleFactory {
    return configurationFactory.config/* No Type Here */(configPrefix)
}
----

=== Extension: `BQCoreModuleExtender.addCommand`

Straightforward and easy to use extension for contributing commands.

[source,kotlin]
----
BQCoreModule
    .extend(binder)
    .addCommand(ApplicationCommand::class)
----

=== Extension: `BQCoreModuleExtender.setDefaultCommand`

Also extension for `setDefaultCommand` available.

[source,kotlin]
----
BQCoreModule
    .extend(binder)
    .setDefaultCommand(ApplicationCommand::class)
----

=== Extensions:

See https://github.com/bootique/bootique-kotlin/blob/master/bootique-kotlin/src/main/java/io/bootique/kotlin/extra/Extensions.kt[Extensions.kt] for sources.

=== Deprecated Extensions:

These extensions deprecated and deleted in 0.25 in favor of `KotlinModule` and `KotlinBootique`.

* `LinkedBindingBuilder.toClass`
* `ScopedBindingBuilder.asSingleton`
* `ScopedBindingBuilder.inScope`
* `Binder.bind`
* `Bootique.module`
* `Bootique.modules`

== Guice

=== KotlinModule

`bootique-kotlin` introduces new module interface to use with kotlin: `KotlinModule`

[source,kotlin]
----
class ApplicationModule : KotlinModule {
    override fun configure(binder: KotlinBinder) {
        binder.bind(ShareCountService::class).to(DefaultShareCountService::class).asSingleton()
        binder.bind(HttpClient::class).to(DefaultHttpClient::class).asSingleton()
    }
}
----

=== Extensions

There are few function to help work with `TypeLiteral` and `Key`.

[source,kotlin]
----
// TypeLiteral
typeLiteral<Array<String>>()

// Key
key<List<Callable<A>>>()
----

== Configuration Module

Use Kotlin Script for configuration really simple:

. Create script
. Override `ConfigurationFactory`

=== Configuration with Kotlin can be defined in Kotlin Script file:

[source,kotlin]
----
import io.bootique.kotlin.config.modules.config
import io.bootique.kotlin.config.modules.httpConnector
import io.bootique.kotlin.config.modules.jetty

config {
    jetty {
        httpConnector {
            port = 4242
            host = "0.0.0.0"
        }
    }
}
----

=== Enable Kotlin Script Configuration in Bootique:

With extension:

[source,kotlin]
----
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    KotlinBootique(args)
        .withKotlinConfig() // Extension function
        .autoLoadModules()
        .exec()
        .exit()
}
----

Using `BQModuleProvider`:

[source,kotlin]
----
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    KotlinBootique(args)
        .module(KotlinConfigModuleProvider())
        .autoLoadModules()
        .exec()
        .exit()
}
----

You can pass this file as always to bootique:

[source,bash]
----
./bin/application --config=classpath:config.kts --server
----

It's even support multiple files (each file contains map of configs):

[source,bash]
----
./bin/application --config=classpath:config.kts --config=classpath:config1.kts --server
----

That's it! You get autocomplete in IDE, and *code* for configuration!

== Bootique Jetty

Define empty config:

[source,kotlin]
----
config {
    jetty {

    }
}
----

Use autocompletion to define configuration.

Use `httpConnector/httpsConnector` extensions to define connectors:

[source,kotlin]
----
jetty {
    httpConnector {
        port = 4242
        host = "192.168.0.1"
        responseHeaderSize = 42
        requestHeaderSize = 13
    }
}
----

== Bootique Logback

Define logback configuration:

[source,kotlin]
----
config {
    addConfig("log" to logbackContextFactory(
        logFormat = "[%d{dd/MMM/yyyy:HH:mm:ss}] %t %-5p %c{1}: %m%n",
        useLogbackConfig = false,
        debugLogback = false,
        level = LogbackLevel.warn,
        loggers = mapOf(
            logger(LogbackModuleTest::class, LogbackLevel.error),
            logger("TestLogger", LogbackLevel.trace)
        ),
        appenders = listOf(
            consoleAppender(
                logFormat = "[%d{dd/MMM/yyyy:HH:mm:ss}] %t %-5p %c{1}: %m%n",
                target = ConsoleTarget.stderr
            ),
            fileAppender(logFormat, "abc", timeBasedPolicy(
                fileNamePattern = "Abc_%d",
                totalSize = "2m",
                historySize = 1
            ))
        )
    ))
}
----

Use function for retrieving logger for class:

[source,kotlin]
----
val logger = logger<SomeService>()
----

Or if class is generic:

[source,kotlin]
----
val logger = logger<SomeService<*>>()
----

== Bootique Undertow

Define undertow configuration:

[source,kotlin]
----
config {
    addConfig("undertow" to undertowFactory(
        httpListeners = listOf(
            httpListener(1337, "127.0.0.1")
        ),
        workerThreads = 42
    ))
}
----
